Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture.
I'm super excited because we're getting closer to mastering Python programming and we'll be pretty much
ready to go ahead and start the melody practical project section.
Let's recap all we have done in the past.
So in the previous lectures we're able to kind of get an overview of how to write for loops and we're
able to write you know for loop to print numbers print strings here and print characters and we're able
as well to kind of you know sum all the numbers within a list and even multiply all the numbers within
the list.
All right let's get going and maybe take a look at two more examples and that should conclude the for
loop section.
So let's assume that I wanted to define again.
Pretty much the same list here that I have my list here.
So can I copy it here and paste it.
So what we're going to do here is I'm going to use kind of an advanced form of for loops.
We're going to add kind of a keywords and we call it enumerate.
OK.
Let's actually do this.
We're going to say enumerate.
OK.
And I'll tell you exactly what they mean by enumerate.
So let's assume that I wanted to print for instance all the elements here which is apples blueberries
mangoes and so on.
But I wanted to add an additional index to it too.
For example I wanted to say let's say 0 apple and then 1 blueberries and then two mangoes and so on.
So let's see how can we do that in order to do that.
Well are you gonna use again the keyword enumerate to perform this enumerate allows us to loop over
something and have an automatic counter as well associated with it.
OK.
Actually have a description here in the in the notes.
And if you actually going to copy that and paste it here this is kind of you know the summary of enumerates
enumerate allows us to loop again over something or whatever and have an automatic counter associated
with it let's go ahead and see how can we do that to do this.
It's going to take a four.
And what we could do and again we're going to use enumerate so enumerate would actually maybe use a
kind of two elements.
You need to have an index i and i need to have kind of the element which is the actual fruit that I
wanted to print here.
Which actual whatever the elements contain within the list.
So going to take a for I element in enumerate and here I'm going to pass along my list.
All right.
My apologies should be my list to be underscored okay.
And put Colin at the end.
Then afterwards I'm going to take a print and he's going to pass along I.
And the elements.
All right.
So what happened here.
Actually let's go ahead and actually let's run it for a split shift enter shift enter.
And here we go.
So what happened here is going to say OK for I an element in enumerate and my lists.
What happened is every time I'm gonna go ahead and grab the index of the element.
So this first element has an index 0 and I'm going to grab the actual element as well which is the actual
value within that list which is Apple.
So first iteration can grab 0 and Apple I'm going to go here and print I an element and then go up again.
Bring the second index which you're going to be one which is the index of blueberries and the element
which is blueberries and then print one of blueberries.
Go ahead print two and mangos and so on I keep repeating this.
And that's pretty much how can you use the word enumerate to actually predict the actual the actual
elements within the list along with the index too.
All right.
OK.
So now it's time for a very brief challenge.
What I want you guys to do is to use the innumerate as well.
But to go up here because remember this is kind of an example where we're able to go ahead create a
loop and pass along a print every single character within our string because remember the shift enter
that would be for eye mangos print eye.
OK so mangoes all the elements in here.
Well I want you guys to do instead.
OK.
This Please go ahead pause a video and use the enumerate as well to print the index along with this
with the characters as well.
So here I need 0 m 1 a two and.
And so on.
Please go ahead positive view and I'll see you guys after the challenge.
All right.
I hope you guys were able to figure out the challenge.
Well I gotta ask you to do is to simply use the innumerate as we have done in the past to perform pretty
much the same operation.
So what we could do again to take you for I an element in let's say here again let's call it enumerate
my list because remember it's going to take a enumerate and are going to pass along mangos and what
I could do here are going to take you.
I wanted to print the I and the element to enter.
And here we go.
Right.
So what happened here again is every time I wanted to get a pin the index which is 0 1 2 3 and so on
and the element which is simply the characters here which is m a n and so on every time I bring them
here and print again the index associated with the character in there.
That's pretty much how to use the word enumerate.
And that's pretty much all we have for this lecture I hope you guys enjoyed it.
Let's recap what we have done so far.
And this lecture we're able to use just learn about kind of an advanced form before loops by adding
the enumerate which is kind of allows us to print the actual elements which the actual let's say elements
within our list along with the index 0 1 2 3 and so on and we're able as well to do kind of a mini challenge
to do repeat pretty much the same operation but four characters if you're looping through characters
not through elements within a list.
And that's pretty much all we'll have for this lecture because I enjoyed it and I'll see you guys in
the next lecture.